# MISRA C-2012 Rule 11.8
## Rule Description
A cast shall not remove any `const` or `volatile` qualification from the type pointed to by a pointer.
​
## Category
Required
​
## Analysis
Decidable, Single Translation Unit
​
## Applies To
C90, C99, C11
​
## Number Of Unit Tests
32
​
## Long Description
### Why this rule
Removing the qualification associated with the addressed type by using casting is a violation of the principle of type qualification.
Removing a `const` qualifier might modify the read-only object or result in an exception when the object is accessed.
Removing a `volatile` qualifier might result in accesses to the object being optimized away.
​
### How
Any attempt to remove the qualifier `const` or `volatile` associated with the addressed type by using casting is a violation of the principle of type qualification.
We check for cast removes `const` or `volatile` qualification from the type pointed to by a pointer. All cases include:

- (TS1) Casts removes `const` or `volatile` qualification from the type pointed to by a pointer (17 test cases, including 3 standard cases)
  * 2 test case are sufficient(`const` and `volatile`), we cover these cases and have more test cases in different contexts with redundancies.
- (TS2) Casts that don't not remove `const` or `volatile` qualification from the type pointed to by a pointer (12 test cases, including 1 standard case)
  * 2 test case are sufficient(`const` and `volatile`), we cover these cases and have more test cases in different contexts with redundancies.
- (TS3) No casts involved or casts applied to a type not pointed to by a pointer (3 test cases)
  * 1 test case is sufficient, we cover this case and have more test cases in different contexts with redundancies.
​
### Exceptions
None

### Number Of Scenarios

All the designed scenarios, including 4 standard cases from MISRA document, make 32 test cases.
More additional test cases with different contexts than necessary are added in some test scenarios for the robustness test of the checker. It's very worthwhile to do so despite some possibility of redundancy.

### Rationale

This strategy is sufficient as it covers all the possible scenarios that a cast between two pointers modified by any `const` or `volatile` qualification should not remove the qualifier. Additionally, we include the standard case in MISRA document as a strong evidence that we're supporting this rule correctly and thoroughly.

## Known Issues
### False Negatives
None

### False Positives
None
​
## Limitations
None
​
## Comments
None
​
## Internal Reference
Rule 11.3
